I Built a Micro SaaS to €5,567 a Month in the Hotel Industry by Solving a Very Specific Problem
When I was 18 years old I started working as a night receptionist 7 days a week. The reason I decided to do this job in particular is because as a night receptionist you essentially get paid by being present.

Working night shifts are absolutely not fun but like this I could bring in €700/week and work on my business ideas at the same time.

Now no kidding, in some hotels you would have to do like 20 minutes of work in an 8 hour shift. It was the craziest job I ever had. You could order pizzas and watch movies while getting paid and I sure as hell did that once or twice ;).

Besides the fact that it was an amazing job I also had a lot of dark moments there. My goal was to quit and start a successful company and sometimes it felt like it would never happen. I didn't go to school and had no back-up plan so I had to make it work.

To get my 7 days every week I had to work for an employment agency. So I essentially worked for multiple hotels.

In some hotels they used Mews (reservation system for hotels). With this I was finished with my tasks in 20 minutes.

In other hotels they used Amadeus IDPMS. It would take hours sometimes. Having to check on every reservation manually and printing a whole tree of papers. Nobody ever wanted to work in these hotels because you actually had to do something. Crazy right?

So anyway. While all my colleagues were lethargic from eating pizza every night (seriously. people that work as night receptionist are the laziest people you'll ever find) I was building a software that would save hotels (that were using Amadeus) a lot of time during the night but also during the day.

I asked every manager if they would want this if I built it and all of them said yes. It was the easiest sale ever and also one of the easiest solutions ever to make.

Because it was such a specific problem that almost nobody knows about it's a complete blue ocean and after starting unsuccessful business venture after another this was the one to set me free.

It generates me more than 5k monthly with over 290 hotels using it now. I have never run an ad or done any SEO. All I did was e-mail and word-of-mouth.

It shows that product is truly king and that understanding what problems a niche/market faces is the most important thing.

This is my story. I hope I was able to write it in an engaging way and I hope to see some questions coming through.